# trade.plugins.daytrades

This plugin provides daytrade functionality to the trade module.
It contains the Daytrade class, a task for the OperationContainer
and some helper functions.


## Classes

### Daytrade(Operation):
A daytrade operation.

Daytrades are operations of purchase and sale of an Asset on
the same date.

Attributes:
    asset: An asset instance, the asset that is being traded.
    quantity: The traded quantity of the asset.
    purchase: A Operation object representing the purchase of the
        asset.
    sale: A Operation object representing the sale of the asset.
    update_position: Set to False, as daytrades don't change the
        portfolio position; they just create results.

#### init(self, date, asset, quantity, purchase_price, sale_price):
Creates the daytrade object.

Base on the informed values this method creates 2 operations:
- a purchase operation
- a sale operation
and them appends them to the Daytrade object operations list.

Both operations can be treated like any other operation when it
comes to taxes and the prorate of commissions.

#### property result(self):
Returns the profit or the loss generated by the daytrade.


## OperationContainer tasks:

### def fetch_daytrades(container):
Fetch the daytrades from the OperationContainer operations.
The daytrades are placed on the container positions under the
'daytrades' key.


## Helper functions:

### daytrade_condition(operation_a, operation_b):
Checks if the operations are day trades.

### extract_daytrade(container, operation_a, operation_b):
Extracts the daytrade part of two operations.

### find_purchase_and_sale(operation_a, operation_b):
Find which is a purchase and which is a sale.


Copyright (c) 2015 Rafael da Silva Rocha  
rocha.rafaelsilva@gmail.com  
http://github.com/rochars/trade  
http://trade.readthedocs.org  
