# daytrades
Copyright (c) 2015 Rafael da Silva Rocha  
https://python-trade.appspot.com  
https://github.com/rochars/trade  
http://trade.readthedocs.org

daytrades: Daytrades plugin for the trade module.

This plugin provides the Daytrade class, a subclass of Operation, and
the fetch_daytrades() task for the OperationContainer.

With this plugin the trade module can:
- Identify daytrades in a group of operations
- Separate daytrades from other operations on the OperationContainer
- Accumulate Daytrades on the portfolio

It provides:
- Daytrade, a subclass of trade.Operation
- the fetch_daytrades() task to the OperationContainer

Daytrades can be accumulated just like any other Operation object.
They will update the asset state adding results but will not change the
quantity or the price of the asset.


## Daytrade(Operation):
A day trade operation.

Day trades are operations of purchase and sale of an Asset on
the same date.

### Attributes:
+ asset: An asset instance, the asset that is being traded.
+ quantity: The traded quantity of the asset.
+ purchase: A Operation object representing the purchase of the asset.
+ sale: A Operation object representing the sale of the asset.
+ update_position: Set to False, as day trades don't change the portfolio position; they just create results.

### Properties:

#### results
Returns the profit or the loss generated by the day trade.

### Methods:

#### ``__init__(self, operation_a, operation_b)``
Creates the daytrade object.

Based on the informed values this method creates 2 operations:
- a purchase operation
- a sale operation
and them appends them to the Daytrade object operations list.

Both operations can be treated like any other operation when it
comes to taxes and the prorate of commissions.

#### update_accumulator(self, accumulator)
Update the accumulator state with this day trade result.

#### extract_daytrade(self, purchase, sale)
Extract the daytraded quantity from 2 operations.

#### append_to_container_positions(self, container)
Save a Daytrade object in the container positions.

If there is already a daytrade with the same asset on the
container's position, then the daytrades are merged.

#### merge_underlying(self, container, operation_index)
Merges one day trade underlying operation.


## fetch_daytrades(container):
An OperationContainer task.

Fetch the daytrades from the OperationContainer operations.

The daytrades are placed on the container positions under the
'daytrades' key, inexed by the Daytrade asset's symbol.


## daytrade_condition(operation_a, operation_b):
Checks if two operations are day trades.


## find_purchase_and_sale(operation_a, operation_b):
Find which operation is a purchase and which is a sale.


## License
Copyright (c) 2015 Rafael da Silva Rocha

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.
