# trade.operation

This module contains the class definitions of Operation and Daytrade.
You can use them by just:

```python
import trade
operation = trade.Operation(args...)
```


## trade.operation.Operation
An operation represents the purchase or the sale of an asset.

### Attributes:  
+ date: A string 'YYYY-mm-dd', the date the operation occurred.
+ asset: An Asset instance, the asset that is being traded.
+ quantity: A number representing the quantity being traded.
    - Positive quantities represent a purchase.
    - Negative quantities represent a sale.
+ price: The raw unitary price of the asset being traded.
+ comissions: A dict of discounts. String keys and float values
  representing the name of the discounts and the values
  to be deducted from the operation.
+ rates: A dict of rates. string keys and float values
  representing the names of the fees and the values of the
  fees to be applied to the operation. Rate values are always
  represented as a percentage. Rates are applied based on the
  volume of the operation.

### Properties:

#### real_value(self):
    """Returns the quantity * the real price of the operation.

#### real_price(self):
Returns the real price of the operation.

The real price is the price with all commissions and rates
already deducted or added.

#### total_commissions(self):
Return the sum of all commissions and rates included in this operation.

#### total_commissions(self):
Return the sum of all commissions included in this operation.

#### volume(self):
Returns the quantity of the operation * its raw price.

#### total_rates_value(self):
Returns the total rate value for this operation.


## trade.operation.Exercise(Operation):
An exercise operation.

Exercise operations are operations that involve more than one
asset, usually a derivative like a Option and an underlying asset.

### Methods:

#### get_operations(self)
Returns the operations created by this exercise.

An exercise creates two operations:
- One operation to consume the option that it being exercised
- One operation to represent the sale or the purchase of the asset


## trade.operation.Daytrade
A daytrade operation.

Daytrades are operations of purchase and sale of an Asset on
the same date.

### Attributes:
+ asset: An asset instance, the asset that is being traded.
+ quantity: The traded quantity of the asset.
+ purchase: A Operation object representing the purchase of the asset.
+ sale: A Operation object representing the sale of the asset.

### Properties

#### result
Returns the profit or the loss generated by the daytrade.

### Methods:

#### init(self, date, asset, quantity, buy_price, sale_price)
Creates the daytrade object.

Base on the informed values this method creates 2 operations:
- a purchase operation
- a sale operation

Both operations (self.purchase and self.sale) can be treated
like any other operation when it comes to taxes and prorate
of commissions.


Copyright (c) 2015 Rafael da Silva Rocha  
rocha.rafaelsilva@gmail.com  
http://github.com/rochars/trade  
http://trade.readthedocs.org  
